Best Practices and Patterns 
---------------------------

One of the things I've noticed during the course of my PhD is that there is a gulf between knowing how to do something, and knowing how to do in a way that's acceptable to others. I think that this gulf is one of *best practices*. 

If that's not clear, then let me illustrate it with an example. I believe that almost anyone can do research which is suitable for publication (honestly, anyone!), but the actual process of publication is far more difficult (I'm speaking as someone who without a huge amount of experience in this area). 

To have work published, you must follow a complex sequence of both explicit and implicit rules. These rules represent the best practices of scientific writing, and without knowing how to follow them, even if you don't know what *they* are, you will have a hard time getting things published. 

This process boils down to 'learning how to play the game' or pick up the idioms, and seems to generalise to almost every other problem domain -- at least those that I've come across. 

Does my description above sound familiar to you? I thought so. Maybe you've tried to commit to a well established open-source project; you probably had to study the coding style, look at how tests were implemented, maybe even learn how they use SCM. 

In my experience, a normal part of any learning process, perhaps even more important that the initial, and traditional *learning* stage, is finding out how things actually get done. I'm hoping that by building exploring this kind of issue into my learning processes, I'll be able to get to a useful state, one where my output is usable by others, quicker, and perhaps not have to unlearn things bad habits which I picked up when I started out.

